docs: Adding events to a plugin (#26083)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/plugins/plugin-development-event-notifications.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Plugin Development — Event Notifications
description: Learn about developing event notifications in Vault plugins.
---

# Event notifications development in Vault plugins

<EnterpriseAlert product="vault" />

~> Advanced topic! Plugin development is a highly advanced topic in Vault, and
is not required knowledge for day-to-day usage. If you don't plan on writing any
plugins, we recommend not reading this section of the documentation.

> [Event notifications](/vault/docs/concepts/events) can provide information when useful information is available from your plugin that might be useful to operators and clients of Vault clusters. Any plugin running in Vault Enterprise 1.16+ can generate such events.

Reviewer: nit: I might reword this slightly

```suggestion
[Event notifications](/vault/docs/concepts/events) can provide useful information from your plugin that might be helpful to operators and clients of Vault clusters. Any plugin running in Vault Enterprise 1.16+ can generate such events.
```

This article assumes that the plugin is written in the Go programming language.

> It is possible for non-Go plugins to send events as well by calling the [`SendEvent` gRPC call](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/blob/main/sdk/plugin/pb/backend.proto#L713) directly.

Reviewer: Should this be a permalink?

```suggestion
It is possible for non-Go plugins to send events as well by calling the [`SendEvent` gRPC call](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/blob/da00addcb60e5fc4fef308715c0a1bd81c475167/sdk/plugin/pb/backend.proto#L713) directly.
```

- `logical` refers to `github.com/hashicorp/vault/sdk/logical`.

`logical.SendEvent` is non-blocking and sends the event notifications asynchronously.

~> Note: It is possible to call `b.SendEvent()` directly, but it is less convenient since it requires a full protobuf struct to be passed in.

## Best practices

While there are no strict rules for what events a plugin may generate, there are some best practices to follow:

- **Do *not* include sensitive or secret data** in the event notification. Events are not protected by the same policy as the underlying secret.

- Only generate event notificiations on writes and actionable errors, **not** reads. Generally, reads are more frequent than writes so generating event notifications for every read operation could have a negative impact on the server performance. Operators that need to be notified when information is read are usually better served by using Vault [audit logs](/vault/docs/audit).

- Prefix event types with your plugin name to avoid clashing with other plugins' event types. For example, the database plugin uses the `database/` prefix for all of its event notifications.

> - Use [common metadata keys](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/blob/main/sdk/logical/events.go#L13-L25), such as `data_path` for the API path to the secret the event notification is about, and `operation` to indicate what modification took place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use [common metadata keys](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/blob/da00addcb60e5fc4fef308715c0a1bd81c475167/sdk/logical/events.go#L13-L25), such as `data_path` for the API path to the secret the event notification is about, and `operation` to indicate what modification took place.
```
